well now let's get to the breaking news
from the west lawn of the capitol where
a single pilot gyrocopter landed about
three and a half hours ago I'm sure sure
you've heard about that by now now it
came down bear with me here for a quick
second I'm no Doug yelling when it comes
to using this area here in the studio it
came down here just west of the US
Capitol on the other side of the
reflecting pool and all the eastern sign
of 1st street behind the capital as you
can see there and of course we've got
live team coverage of the landing for
you tonight so let's get things started
now with Stephen cheetah he is standing
by there at the Capitol Stephen what's
the latest now Leon within the hour i
spoke with a reporter for the Tampa Bay
Times he says he knows the pilot of this
gyrocopter he identifies him as Doug
Hughes a man in his early 60s a mailman
who is a campaign finance reform the
zealot he says that Hughes has talked of
doing this for more than a year what we
do know right now is a lot of people are
asking how could an aircraft get this
close to the US Capitol it landed about
130 on the West Lawn of the US Capitol a
small gyrocopter had a single occupant
US Capitol Police sprang into action
immediately and took that lone person
into custody we've been here in the
Sarah's and know what was going on and
was trying to walk up the street and
everything's blocked off and turned off
while the bomb squad inspected the
gyrocopter streets around the Capitol
shut down and those on hand asked how
could a gyrocopter get so close to the
US Capitol violate a no-fly zone in this
post-september 11th world how did that
guy even get in here that was the big
thing that's what everybody was talking
about with the airspace being restricted
and all that how can he fly a helicopter
and land on the lawn of the capitol
building you know what souris got to the
gyrocopter which sent the nation's
capital into a state of confusion and
concern the investigation continued
investigators stated that the pilot of
that aircraft would eventually face
charges
now just about 10 minutes ago the US
Capitol Police issued a statement saying
the investigation continues and no word
yet again about what charges the pilot
of the gyro copter may face eventually
reporting live Steven cheetah abc7 news
you see them now people down there near
the capital at the time watched as thank
gyrocopter made its way toward the
Capitol DC bureau chief Sam Ford now
picks up our team coverage he's standing
by on the National Mall Sam yes Leon
well you know the DC bureau is right
across the street from where this landed
so we heard about this came out and saw
all kinds of people sort of running in
that direction to get a look at this
thing that had come out of the sky among
them were a group of protesters who had
set up shop here on the mall
so we were in the pickup area where the
buses come in and pick up people for us
and we were sitting there in this little
it's almost like the guy from eg is
riding a bicycle Oma's but it doesn't
have the bike is awesome kinda helped
our glue on the top and it comes flying
over the pond over there and lands right
and it bounces down on the ground and
pops up there's like a box on the back
of it but it's just he landed right
there and then immediately the cops came
over and said get back get back go and
start running through that okay those
that turns out we're a group of young
people from West Virginia he were on a
college trip but a number of people came
they saw this thing happened it reminded
some people of the situation back in
October of 2013 when a young woman they
Miriam Carey was driving fast through
this area as it turns out she drove it I
understand that speeds of up to 80 miles
an hour between the White House and the
Capitol she came here and drove around
that same area where this this device
landed and eventually was shot and
killed by the US Capitol Police there
was a child in the car who fortunately
that child fortunately was not hurt but
still a lot of concern by people here in
this area some thought perhaps was
terrorism and a lot of people are
relieved that it was not reporting live
from the US Capitol Sam for KBC 70 ok
Sam thank you and now only on 7 you'll
see this video of the pilot being
arrested right on the grounds of the US
Capitol and it appears that the man came
to our area from Florida I team
investigator Josie sturman digging into
his background she's in the newsroom now
Josie well Alison the Tampa Bay Times
has identified that pilot as done cubes
that 61 year old mailman from Florida
and we're learning a lot more about his
motivation for landing that gyrocopter
on the lawn of the US Capitol the tip of
a times has been profiling this guy for
quite some time he's been preparing for
what landed him today in the most
restricted airspace practicing on that
one man gyrocopter we took up some
social media postings that indicate
Hughes has had that aircraft since 2013
although he says he was briefly grounded
last fall because of mechanical problems
the 7 on your side item also did some
digging to find out more about his
background and motivation it turns out
Hughes is the vice president of a
non-profit reform group called the Civil
List papers based in florida the
organization's website says it has a
systematic plan to fix Congress one part
of that plan was today's mission which
hughes has called an act of civil
disobedience it was planned for the
better part of the year according to the
reporter who interviewed him before any
of this happened today he was trying to
arrest the 24 hour news cycle and turn
the attention of everyday Americans to
what he thinks is the biggest issue in
politics today and that's campaign
finance reform something that makes your
eyes glaze over and all eyes were
certainly watching today now he was told
the reporter he wanted somebody to hear
the backstory of this whole situation in
case he was arrested or hurt carrying
out today's flight Hughes was
immediately taken into custody by
capitol police after landing so we know
about the rest we don't know whether he
was injured Josie sturman ABC 7 News all
right Thank You Jesse now with folks we
know you've got questions about today's
incidents abc7 believe me is on your
side because we're trying to get answers
for you and for ourselves as well for
example how in the world did this pilot
make it to the US Capitol considering
the fact that there is maybe one of the
strictest no-fly zones in the country
around DC particularly around the
national mall and if the Tampa Bay Times
did notify the Secret Service about this
man's intentions before he took off why
in the world was nothing done to stop
him that's a really big question so stay
with us here on ABC 7 for continuing
coverage we will work to get you answers
to those questions and more Alice